Informatics for Astronomers - WS2020
====================================

**Roland Ottensamer, Marina Dütsch, Miguel Verdugo, Gerald
Mösenlechner**

Exercise sheet 8 - Network and Security
=======================================

------------------------------------------------------------------------

> *The following will be also part of the assessment:*
>
> *(1) Try to present exercises in a way that everyone can understand
> (even those who didn't do the exercises), so please explain the vital
> parts of your solution in a clear way.*
>
> *(2) Try to also include some background information where applicable,
> and/or explain the possible context/motivation for the given
> exercise.*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.  What exactly is the Internet (physically and logically)? What do I
    actually mean with *physical* and *logical* in this context? What is
    the World Wide Web?

2.  In moodle you can find a `python` script called `portscanner.py`
    which scans the ports of a host to find out if any of them are
    open. Execute it, providing `localhost` as a input. How many ports
    are open?

    -   Now open a session of `jupyter notebook` and execute the script
        again. Do you see a difference?
    -   In a separate terminal execute: `python -m http.server` and
        execute the script again.

    What is happening?

3.  Use the command `traceroute` to a website of your preference. Describe the
    output of that command. Use the IP address listed in the output to find out the
    "physical" route that the packages followed using a geolocation service
    (e.g. [ipinfo.io](ipinfo.io)).

4.  Use `ssh` to connect a server (e.g. `login.univie.ac.at`).

    -   Use `scp`/`sftp` to download/upload files

    What `ssh`/`scp`/`sftp` stands for? Why?

5.  Look in `PyPi` for a `python` package that can perform (text)
    encryption. Install it in your system and encrypt (and decrypt) the
    text generated by `import this`{.python}

    -   After seeing the results, what is encryption useful for?
