# Informatics for Astronomers - WS2021

**Roland Ottensamer, Marina Dütsch, Miguel Verdugo, Andreas Schanz**

# Exercise sheet 4 - Internet basics and more Python

---

>  _The following will be also part of the assessment:_
>
>  _(1) Try to present exercises in a way that everyone can understand (even those who didn’t do the exercises), so please explain the vital parts of
> your solution in a clear way._
>
>  _(2) Try to also include some background information where applicable, and/or
> explain the possible context/motivation for the given exercise._

---
1.  In moodle you can find a `python` script called `portscanner.py`
    which scans the ports of a host to find out if any of them are
    open. Execute it, providing `localhost` as a input. How many ports
    are open?

    -   Now open a session of `jupyter notebook` and execute the script
        again. Do you see a difference?
    -   In a separate terminal execute: `python -m http.server` and
        execute the script again.

    What is happening?

2.  Use the command `traceroute` to a website of your preference. Describe the
    output of that command. Use the IP address listed in the output to find out the
    "physical" route that the packages followed using a geolocation service
    (e.g. [ipinfo.io](ipinfo.io)).

4.  Look in `PyPi` for a `python` package that can perform (text)
    encryption. Install it in your system and encrypt (and decrypt) the
    text generated by `import this`{.python}

    - After seeing the results, what is encryption useful for?

    - Using the function to calculate the entropy from the previous exercise,
      evaluate the _entropy_ before and _after_ the encryption

3.  Describe and demonstrate with examples the most common exceptions in python.

5. Use the `ping` command to the server of your preference (e.g. `www.google.com`). Store the results of 100 "pings" in a file. Read that file with python, parse the results so you get a list or array with the ping times. Create an histogram of the ping times with `matplotlib` and statistics with numpy.

6. Using the `python` module `timeit`, evaluate the execution time of the function you wrote to find repeated
   numbers (from the last exercise) vs using the `numpy` library.
